>> David Khourshid: Okay, so
let's get to the next section.
And this is an image that sort
of introduces what the next
section is going to be about.
And it's of course, usereducer.
And usereducer is actually a very
useful hook when you need it.
I know that a lot of you
might have come from Redux or
come from similar areas where you've
either used a Redux reducer or
you've used used Reducer, and
it just feels like a lot of boilerplates.
But the fact is, when you have
complex app logic requirements,
using a reducer is going to be
a lot better than trying to
manage multiple use dates,
use effects, and even use context.
And, and the reason is because usereducer,
it's in the name,
it literally reduces all of that data and
states down into a single function,
which you could independently test.
So again, for complex logic,
usereducer is great for simple states,
you could continue to use states and
things like that.
So let's go to the reducer readme
just to talk about it a little bit.
What we're going to be doing in this
exercise is we're going to be combining
two things.
We're going to be combining
React Context and UseReducer.
Because one of the other great
things about UseReducer, this is all
because you're able to centralize
that logic is, is that you could
share that between multiple components and
sort of make your own Redux,
you could make your own global source of
truth where you could read the state and
also dispatch events or
actions to update that state as well.
And so this allows you to avoid
doing multi level prop drilling or
to have this parent component
that has a use date,
potentially just causing
a lot of re renders.
And so instead of this,
which again, I've seen in so
many applications where we're just
passing props down through many levels.
We could instead use context and use a
reducer with context to pass the state and
the dispatch function down to
whatever component needs it.
So we're going to be doing that and we're
also going to be combining another thing
that we talked about,
which is finite states.
So we're going to be working on a booking
flow, or actually it's a flight
picker sort of flow, where the first
thing we're going to be doing,
like we did in previous exercises,
is we're going to be simplifying
all of these Boolean state values
into either a discriminated union or
a single object, depending on
how much type safety you want.
And Then we're going to be
using the usereducer hook for
managing these complex
state requirements and
we're going to be putting it into
context so that we could share that.
So just to give you
an idea of the motivation,
I actually have a demo page over here.
Actually.
No, I don't.
I thought I did.
Let's find it.
Yeah, there we go.
Okay, let me see if this is
actually in the right place.
So we are going to be inside the reducer
exercise and let me just move this over.
I can't.
Okay, that's fine.
So I'm gonna copy this,
do it the manual way.
We're gonna make a demo/page.tsx,
just to show you a very,
very simplified version of
what we're going to be doing.
So let's say that you
have a multi step form.
Now in this case there's only two or
three steps, but still it counts.
You could scale this up
to be however many steps.
Reducer demo.
Okay, so it's very simple.
Just we have one page for
searching for stuff and
then we have a loading screen and
then we have our results screen.
And it looks ugly on purpose right now.
But the idea, and
first let's talk about the flow.
What's going to happen is that you're
going to be able to search for stuff.
So presumably you have a form where
you could put in search inputs,
you press search and
then a loading screen shows up and
then after a while you,
you get the results.
So now you're going to be on the results
screen and then you can also go back so
you could search for stuff again.
So it's a very simplified flow, and
in fact let's just go ahead over here and
map this out just so
you could see what kind of
flow we're going to be doing.
One minute we're going to be
creating a new machine and
so first we're going to be
in this search form and
then when we start to search,
not really the most
appropriately named so
call this search form.
Then we're going to be in some
sort of loading screen and
then once we get the results,
then we have a results page over here.
And so in the results page we could
actually go back to the search form.
And so again I'm demonstrating how useful
it is to think in terms of, you know,
just diagramming things and
modeling your app logic,
because even looking at this, we're not
gonna build this in this quick demo,
but I could see that we're
missing Something like error.
And so
we have a failed to fetch results screen.
And then even if we add that,
I can see that we
have another issue in that you
can't really retry from here.
So we might want something to retry or
we might want to do
a new search from here.
So that's just an idea
of the kind of flow.
We're going to only be working
with this small flow over here.
And that's the demo that we're
going to be working from.
This is where a reducer
becomes really handy,
not just because we have more
complex app logic requirements, but
also because we want to be
able to share the state and
a way to dispatch events to change the
state with each of those three components.
So the way we're going to do this
is by first making a reducer.
And so
it's going to look like this function,
we'll just call this flow reducer.
And we're gonna have a state and an action
and we'll fill the types in later.
But typically when you create a reducer,
you switch based on the types first.
In previous courses where
I talked about Xstate and
building your own state machine,
you would switch on the state first and
that's a more maintainable pattern.
But for this simple example,
we're just going to switch on
the different action types first.
So when we search, you know,
we're going to be in a loading state and
then once we get results then we're
going to be in a result state.
And then once we go back,
we go back to the search states.
So now let's add our types.
So we are going to have a flow state and
this for now it's just going to be,
you know, it's one of these three
statuses, search, loading or results.
And we're also going to
have results maybe so any.
Or we might not have results at all.
And then we could just add this over here
and then we're going to have some actions
that we could do that help us
transition between the states.
So type flow, action, we have search,
let's call this receipt
results just to disambiguate.
And then so we have oops,
we have type received results and
presumably we'll have
some results here too.
And we'll, we'll just make this a string
and we also have the back action.
See, this assumes that
we're in the result state.
So that's why you might want to add
something like if state is search,
you can't really go back from there.
So this assumes that state is results or
maybe it's loading and
you could still go back.
Remains to be seen.
So this is our reducer and we're going
to add the flow action over there and
then we're going to add that reducer.
So const state dispatch,
you pass in the reducer over here and
then you put in the initial state.
Now we're going to have an issue
where it's like the types of status
are incompatible.
So let's see how we could fix that.
We have flow state.
We should specifically say that it
is going to return the flow state.
So now everything is as expected.
Okay, so in our different views here,
we have a button for searching, we have
a button for going back from the results
view and the loading view, which doesn't
really concern itself too much with any
of the states because we're going to.
It's just an intermediate state that
doesn't really show any results or
anything, but it could.
So how do we actually pass in a way
to get our dispatch in here and
get the results in the result view?
Well, this is where we
could use React's context.
So I'm gonna say const flow
context equals create context.
And since we want to share both
the state and a way to dispatch it,
I'm just going to put it in an object.
So this is going to be state,
which is the flow state and dispatch.
Now in some React documentation they
do actually have special types for
the dispatch function, but
I'm not going to use that.
I like keeping things simple.
So we're going to say action,
flow, action and that's going to
be void because this is a function
that shouldn't really do anything.
I'm going to grab this import from React
and then this is always a bit strange,
like this is why cursor helps, but
typically I would do null as any.
The idea is that if you omit the context,
then it uses this as the default context.
But the idea is you always want to have
a provider anyway, so this is unnecessary.
But just to make React happy, we're going
to either put something simple in here or
we could do, I don't know,
null as unknown as whatever that type is.
That's just one of the weird
parts about React.
But yeah, there you go.
Okay, so we have our flow context.
So now when we go to the app,
we could actually have
a provider in which we give the state and
the dispatch function.
And now this is going to be available to
any component that uses that context.